Add test plan for QUARKUS-1159 (#83)
quarkus-qe/quarkus-test-plans: QUARKUS-1159.md

# QUARKUS-1159 - Quarkus FIPS support over RHEL8

JIRA link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/QUARKUS-1159

The goal is ensure Quarkus runs on a FIPS enabled RHEL 8 System

## Scope of testing

### Impact on test suites and testing automation

> - Test will be implemented in https://github.com/quarkus-qe/quarkus-test-suite (Openshift scenarios are out of scope) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Test will be implemented in https://github.com/quarkus-qe/quarkus-test-suite (OpenShift scenarios are out of scope) 
```

  
### Impact on resources

> FIPS coverage will have its own instances with FIPS enabled and will cover JDK 11 and 17. The impact is pretty big because we will run the current Quarkus test suite twice, in JVM and native mode. The best approach is implement this coverage with a Jenkins matrix job in order to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FIPS coverage will have use Jenkins runner instances with enabled FIPS support and will be executed using JDK 11 and 17 and equivalent Mandrel images. The impact is pretty big because we will run the some test suites twice, in both JVM and native mode. The best approach is implement this coverage with a Jenkins matrix job in order to 
```

> split the execution between several workers. This apporach will reduce the execution time but will require more raw resources in terms of memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
split the execution between several workers. This approach can reduce the execution time but will require more raw resources in terms of memory
```

and CPU. 

> - Baremetal resources: 16 large (8Gb RAM + 4CPUs) VM instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Jenkins runners for JVM mode: 8 large (8GB RAM + 4CPUs) VM instances
```

> - Native resources: 16 xlarge (16Gb RAM + 8CPUs) VM instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Jenkins runners for native mode: 8 xlarge (16GB RAM + 8CPUs) VM instances
```

> The above estimation include the whole execution in JVM 11 and 17

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above estimation assumes sequential execution using JDK 11 and after that JDK 17. Twice as much resources would be needed on case of parallel execution for both JDK 11 and 17.
```

## Known issues

> 

Reviewer: Provide more details, not just component name.

- [quarkus-smallrye-jwt](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/QUARKUS-2066)
- [Keycloak](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/QUARKUS-2071)
- [DB2](https://github.com/IBM/Db2/issues/43)
- [Infinispan](https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/issues/25136)

> 

Reviewer: https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20QUARKUS%20AND%20text%20~%20fips gives me more issues than just the 2 JIRAs listed above

## Contacts

* Tester: Pablo Gonzalez <pagonzal@redhat.com>

## References
  [General documentation reference](https://www.nist.gov/standardsgov/compliance-faqs-federal-information-processing-standards-fips)
  [RHEL 8 + FIPS](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/security_hardening/assembly_installing-a-rhel-8-system-with-fips-mode-enabled_security-hardening)

>   [Certutils](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/impish/man1/certutil.1.html)

Reviewer: RHEL/fedora based page instead of ubuntu pls (if available of course)
